---
layout: default-2021
title: Call for Talk Proposals! - !!Con 2021
---

# Call for talk proposals

Hi!

!!Con is back for our **eighth year** of celebrating the joy, excitement,
and surprise of computing, and we want **you** to [submit a talk*
proposal](https://forms.gle/e5VmYgctBSTLd7556)!  This year, in our new
format, we're hoping to make it possible for even more speakers to join us
than ever before, but in order for that to happen, we need your talk*
proposals!  The **submission deadline** is **Thursday, April 8th**.

Since its launch in 2014, !!Con talks have featured everything from [glowing
mushrooms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T75FvUDirNM) to [game
theory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RHg2JIvoaq0); from [machine
knitting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ihqcgrR0azw) to
[Pokémon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OJ-6UsYYe_Y); from [live
coding on an Apple II](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DY4t9IHFD4E) to
[queer feminist cyberpunk
manifestos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5GiQovHaT_g).  We’ve had
speakers who are programmers, poets, scientists, students, and more!

What’s an idea that delights you?  Did you learn something surprising
recently?  Is there a tool you love that you’ve been telling everyone about? 
Did you do something with computers that seems impossible or amazing or just
really fun?  Please take this call for talk* proposals as an [invitation to
meditate](https://twitter.com/akaptur/status/583115830621184000) on what you
love about computing, and then [submit a
talk*](https://forms.gle/e5VmYgctBSTLd7556)
about one of those things!

The only requirements are that your talk*:

  * be computing-related!
  * be about something you think is interesting and cool!
  * **have at least one exclamation mark in the title!**

What do we mean by talk* with an asterisk?  Two years ago, we [expanded what
we consider](https://organicdonut.com/2019/01/expanding-the-con-aesthetic/)
for !!Con’s 10-minute slots!  Send us plays about the joy of computing,
musical numbers about a bug you found, a magic show using strace.  Whatever
you want to do with a ten-minute slot, we’d love to hear about it.  Of
course, we’re looking forward to seeing good old-fashioned talk proposals as
well.

We would **especially** like to hear from you if:

  * you wouldn't ordinarily be able to travel to New York, but an online
    format makes it possible for you to share what you love.
  * you submitted a talk proposal to a previous !!Con that was rejected (we’ve had to reject **so many** talk proposals we loved).
  * you’ve never spoken at a tech conference. Some of our favorite !!Con talks have been from first-time speakers.
  * you find that people like you are underrepresented at programming conferences. We’re committed to doing work to make !!Con a good experience for you. See our [code of conduct](conduct.html).

**All talks* will be ten minutes long.** Ten minutes isn’t much time, so
think carefully about the scope of your talk* and be clear in the
[timeline](http://composition.al/blog/2017/06/30/how-to-write-a-timeline-for-a-bangbangcon-talk-proposal/)
about how you plan to spend the time.  A single, focused idea is best – go
for “here’s my favorite assembly instruction” rather than “here’s an
overview of how assembly works”.

The submission deadline is **Thursday, April 8th**.  We’ll accept as many
amazing talks* as we can.  You can submit more than one proposal.

Proposals will be [anonymized to avoid
bias](https://organicdonut.com/2018/03/the-con-talk-anonymization-and-selection-process/). 
Although we ask for your name, email address, and so on in the proposal
submission form, only one or two organizers who serve as anonymizers will
actually see this information, and they won’t review your proposal.  The
rest of the organizing team will review your proposal without knowing who
you are.

## Submit your proposal today!

Important dates:

  * March 8th: Call for talk* proposals opens.
  * April 8th: [Talk* proposal
    submission](https://forms.gle/e5VmYgctBSTLd7556) deadline.
  * April 18th: Notification of talk* acceptance.
  * April 19th: Conference registration opens.
  * April 21st: Deadline for speakers to confirm their participation.
  * April 23rd: Public announcement of full speaker list.
  * May 8th: Public announcement of detailed schedule.
  * May 15th - 22nd: !!Con!

## Speaker equipment funding

This year's !!Con will be held entirely online!  For speakers that don't
already have an audio/video setup of broadcast quality, we offer financial
assistance as needed for camera and microphone equipment.

## Speaker honorarium

Preparing an amazing conference talk is hard work.  To show our
appreciation, we’re paying all our speakers a $256 (US) honorarium.

## Accessibility

!!Con is committed to being an conference available to everyone.  Your talk
will be captioned live by a professional stenographer.  If you need other
assistance in presenting at !!Con, please don’t hesitate to [let us
know](index.html#organizers) what we can do to make your speaking
arrangement comfortable.

## A note about time zones

Although !!Con has traditionally been a New York-based conference, we're
excited to change our format to be available to speakers -- and attendees --
no matter where they are!  Speakers will have the option of presenting
either a pre-recorded talk* or a live talk*, and although we can't guarantee
it yet, we additionally hope to have presentation slots that are accessible
to speakers on many different time zones.  If you've previously been
interested in speaking at a !!Con, but the requirement to travel has made
that otherwise impossible for you, we'd hope you'll consider submitting a
talk this year!

You can submit your talk* by [using this form](https://forms.gle/e5VmYgctBSTLd7556). Thanks for submitting to !!Con!
